[DOC] Update multidata sources to remove experimental wording (#3962)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _dashboards/discover/multi-data-sources.md

# Adding multiple data sources

Use OpenSearch Dashboards to dynamically manage data sources, create index patterns based on those data sources, run queries against a specific data source, and combine visualizations in one dashboard. 

Learn how to enable the `data_source` setting in Dashboards; add credentials, data source connections, and index patterns; and combine visualizations in a single dashboard in this tutorial.

## Modifying the YAML file settings for multiple data sources

This tutorial uses a preconfigured data source and index pattern for which you aren’t required to configure settings. However, you have to enable the multiple data sources feature, as it is disabled by default.

To enable multiple data sources:

1. Navigate to your Dashboards home directory, for example, in Docker, `/usr/share/opensearch-dashboards`.

> 2. Open your local copy of the Dashboards configuration file, `opensearch_dashboards.yml`. If you don't have a copy, the [YAML file](`https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards/blob/main/config/opensearch_dashboards.yml`) is available on GitHub.

Reviewer: Links should not be in back tics.
```suggestion
2. Open your local copy of the Dashboards configuration file, `opensearch_dashboards.yml`. If you don't have a copy, [`opensearch_dashboards.yml`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards/blob/main/config/opensearch_dashboards.yml) is available on GitHub.
```

> 3. Set `data_source.enabled:` to  `true` and save the YAML file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Set `data_source.enabled` to  `true` and save the YAML file.
```

4. Restart the Dashboards container.
5. Verify that the configuration settings were created and configured properly by connecting to Dashboards and viewing the **Stack Management** console. **Data Sources** appears in the sidebar, as shown in the following image.

![Data Sources navigation menu]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/data-sources.png)

## Creating a data source connection

A data source connection specifies the parameters needed to connect to a data source. These parameters form a connection string for the data source. In Dashboards, you can add new data source connections or edit existing connections.

To create a new data source connection:

> 1. Go to [`http://localhost:5601`](http://localhost:5601/) log in with the username `admin` and password `admin`. If you’re running the Security plugin, go to [`https://localhost:5601`](https://localhost:5601/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to [`http://localhost:5601`](http://localhost:5601/) and log in with the username `admin` and password `admin`. If you’re running the Security plugin, go to [`https://localhost:5601`](https://localhost:5601/).
```

2. From the OpenSearch Dashboards main menu, select **Stack Management**, **Data Sources**, and then **Create data source connection**.
3. Add information to each field to configure **Connection Details**, **Endpoint URL**, and **Authentication Method**. 
   
   In the **Connection Details** window, enter a title. Entering a description is optional.

>    In **Endpoint** window, enter the **Endpoint URL**. For this tutorial, use the URL `http://localhost:5601/app/management/opensearch-dashboards/dataSources`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   In the **Endpoint** window, enter the **Endpoint URL**. For this tutorial, use the URL `http://localhost:5601/app/management/opensearch-dashboards/dataSources`.
```

   In the **Authentication** window, select an **Authentication Method**. The options are:
    - **No authentication**: No authentication is used to connect to the data source.
    - **Username & Password**: A basic username and password are used to connect to the data source.

>     - **AWS Sigv4**: An AWS Signature Version 4 authenticating request is used to connect to the data source. AWS Sigv4 requires an access key ID and a secret access key. First specify the **Region**, and then enter the **Access Key** and **Secret Key** for authorization. For information about available Regions for AWS accounts, see [Available Regions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-regions-availability-zones.html#concepts-available-regions). For more on Sigv4 authentication requests, see [Authenticating Requests (AWS Signature Version 4)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/sig-v4-authenticating-requests.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **AWS Sigv4**: An AWS Signature Version 4 authenticating request is used to connect to the data source. AWS Sigv4 requires an access key ID and a secret access key. First specify the **Region**, and then enter the **Access Key** and **Secret Key** for authorization. For information about available AWS Regions for AWS accounts, see [Available Regions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-regions-availability-zones.html#concepts-available-regions). For more information about Sigv4 authentication requests, see [Authenticating Requests (AWS Signature Version 4)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/sig-v4-authenticating-requests.html).
```

3. Change the time field to a particular time period, for example, **Last 7 days**, and then select **Refresh**.
4. Change start or end times by selecting the start or end time in the search bar.
5. In the pop-up window, choose **Absolute**, **Relative**, or **Now** and then specify the date, for example, as shown in the following image.

![Time filter with search bar]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/time-filter-data-sources.png)

### Selecting a time range from the histogram

To select a time range for the histogram, choose from the following options:

* Select the bar that represents the time range you want to zoom in on.
* Select the bar and drag to view a specific time range. You must start the selection with the cursor over the background of the chart (the cursor changes to a plus sign when you hover over a valid start point).
* Select the dropdown and then select an interval.

## Selecting multiple data sources in the Dev Tools console

> Selecting multiple data sources in the Dev Tools console allows you to work with a broader range of data and gain deeper insights into your code and applications. Watch the video to see it in action, and then try it out in the following steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Selecting multiple data sources in the Dev Tools console allows you to work with a broader range of data and gain deeper insight into your code and applications. Watch the video to see it in action, and then try it out in the following steps.
```

# Adding multiple data sources

> OpenSearch Dashboards allows you to dynamically manage data sources, create index patterns based on those data sources, run queries against a specific data source, and combine visualizations in one dashboard. In this tutorial we provide the steps for enabling the `data_source` setting in Dashboards; adding credentials, data source connections, and index patterns; and combining visualizations in a single dashboard.

Reviewer 3: According to the new style guidance, we should say something like, "With OpenSearch Dashboards, you can dynamically manage data sources, create index patterns based on those data sources, run queries against a specific data source, and combine visualizations in a single dashboard."     (use phrases such as “With this feature, you can...” or “Use this feature to...” instead of saying a feature allows, enables, or lets the user do something.)

Author: Revised throughout to follow style guide.

## Modifying the YAML file settings for multiple data sources

> This tutorial uses a preconfigured data source and index pattern, and you aren’t required to configure settings. However, configuration requirements must be addressed to enable the multiple data sources feature, as Dashboards is configured in the cluster settings and the multiple data sources feature is disabled by default. To enable it, you need to edit the configuration file and then restart the cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This tutorial uses a preconfigured data source and index pattern for which you aren’t required to configure settings. However, you'll need to enable the multiple data sources feature, as it is disabled by default. To enable it, edit the configuration file and then restart the cluster.
```

To enable multiple data sources:

1. Navigate to your Dashboards home directory, for example, in Docker, `/usr/share/opensearch-dashboards`.
2. Open your local copy of the Dashboards configuration file, `opensearch_dashboards.yml`. If you don't have a copy, the [YAML file](`https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards/blob/main/config/opensearch_dashboards.yml`) is available on GitHub.
3. Set `data_source.enabled:` to  `true` and save the YAML file.
4. Restart the Dashboards container.

> 5. Verify the configuration settings were created and configured properly by connecting to Dashboards and viewing the **Stack Management** console. **Data Sources** appears in the sidebar, as shown in the following image.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Verify that the configuration settings were created and configured properly by connecting to Dashboards and viewing the **Stack Management** console. **Data Sources** appears in the sidebar, as shown in the following image.
```

When **Username & Password** is the selected authentication method, you can update the password by choosing **Update stored password** next to the **Password** field. In the pop-up window, enter a a new password in the first field and then enter it again in the second field to confirm. Choose **Update stored password** in the pop-up window. The new password is saved. Choose **Test connection** in the upper-right corner of the screen to confirm that the connection is valid.

When **AWS SigV4** is the selected authentication method, you can update the credentials by choosing **Update stored AWS credential**. In the pop-up window, enter a new  access key in the first field and a new secret key in the second field. Choose **Update stored AWS credential** in the pop-up window. The new credentials are saved. Choose **Test connection** in the upper-right corner of the screen to confirm that the connection is valid.

> To delete the data source connection, choose the red trash can icon ({::nomarkdown}<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/dashboards/trash-can-red-icon.png" class="inline-icon" alt="red trash can icon"/>{:/}) in the upper-right corner of the screen.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure if saying 'red' is appropriate for people that are color-blind. Maybe check with UX?

## Creating an index pattern

Index patterns allow you to access the OpenSearch data that you want to explore. An index pattern selects the data to use and allows you to define the field properties. Learn how to load your own data and create an index pattern following these steps. This tutorial uses the preconfigured index pattern `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_ecommerce Default`.

1. In the Dashboards console, choose **Index Patterns** > **Create index pattern**.
2. Choose **Use external data source connection**.

> 3. Start typing in the **Search data sources** field to search for the data source you created earlier and then select the data source and **Next step**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Start typing in the **Search data sources** field to search for the data source you created earlier, select the data source, and then select **Next step**.
```

> 4. Add an **Index pattern name** to define the index pattern and then choose **Next step**.

Reviewer 3: Choose or select? I think we're using select more in this topic...

5. Select an option for the **Time field** and then choose **Create index pattern**.

## Searching data

Before you start searching for data, set up the time filter. The sample index pattern used for this tutorial contains time-based data. You can set a time filter that displays only the data within a specified time range, and you can choose the time filter to change the time range or select a specific time range in the histogram.

### Setting the time filter

To set the time filter:

> 1. In the Dashboards console, choose     and confirm that the index pattern being used is `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_ecommerce`.

Reviewer 3: are you missing a word?

2. Choose the calendar icon to change the time field. The default is **Last 15 minutes**.
3. Change the time field to **Last 7 days** and choose **Refresh**.
4. To set the start and end times, choose the bar next to the time filter. In the pop-up window, select **Absolute**, **Relative**, or **Now** and then specify the required options.

### Selecting a time range from the histogram

> To select a time range for the histogram, you have the following options:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To select a time range for the histogram, choose from the following options:
```
?
